# Speech To Text

Basically I'll be exploring how can I create a speech-to-text model.

## How does speech to text work?

It works by cross-referencing voice data with the program's text library. Every word produces sound waves that are relatively unique to it. The sound waves, when converted into digital signals, also retain a somewhat unique signature.

The digital signal generated by converting "Hello" is different from the one generated by converting "Good Bye". As long as a program has learned what the digital signal of "hello" looks like, respond to hello by typing out the word. This isn't foolproof, though.

If you say you a "hell of a day", the digital equivalent of the beginning of that sentence might sound like "hello" to the program. That's why context recognition and accent recognition are important.

Humans react differently to words because humans have a library of words with which they match what they hear. Humans don't need to convert "hello" into a digital signal, but they need to turn into a neural signal that the brain can process. If they know what "hello" means, they can respond accordingly. And if they don't, they will ask for clarification.

On the surface, humans and computer seem to have a similar three-part speech recognition system.

For Humans: We recieve via ears which get's converted into neural signals and it is processed by cross-referrencing with existing knowledge.

For Computer/Smartphone: They receive via microphone, which get's converted into digital code and it is processed by cross-referencing with a word-signal library.

The two key differences are that humans are better at context and accent recognition. When someone says "hails" because they aren't native English speakers, most people can tell that what they mean is "hello". Most speech recognition programs might not arrive at the same conclusion.

So, most speech-to-text programs haven't been functional until the emergence of deep-learning. With deep learning, speech recognition algorithms have started to learn context and even pick up on accents.

(Everything is taken from here: https://www.contentfries.com/blog/understanding-speech-to-text-technology)

## A high level overview of the whole process:
1. Get the Data 
2. PreProcess the audio data (eg extract MFCCs or log Mel Spectograms)
3. Build a model (eg CNN + RNN + CTC or Transformers based)
4. Train the model on audio-text pairs
4. Evaluate the model using metrics like word-error-rate (WER) or character-error-rate (CER)


